Project scope. I'm sorry I was a few minutes delayed in joining the call due to technical issues and may have missed this, but in your scope statement you say you're exploring the potential for a national approach to the collection, preservation, supply, and digitisation of scholarly monographs. All 4 of those hit the legacy print issue; 3 of them hit e-collecting/PDA/cooperative acquisition but really none of them hit OA monographic publishing. Any possibility that could be taken out of scope? Perhaps it already is, but it did come up a bit in the chat room today.

US regional model. I'm not sure the US will be providing leadership in stitching together these repositories anytime soon. As Emily noted in the chat, this issue will require leadership from the ARL director level and (my opinion) it is not something I've seen them take special interest in yet. That said, as in the UK, there may be something to be learned (and maybe it has already been extracted and written up) from successful--or unsuccessful--regional partnerships in the areas of governance, staffing, SLAs, etc.

Incentives. The strongest incentive from the library's perspective is economic and related to space recovery. But most ARLs have already "solved" their storage crisis by moving a lot of their stuff offsite, with various collaborations underlying that or not, but no consistent approach re: access, metadata, systems infrastructure. Once it's offsite, they've already recovered their library real estate and the incentive to continue to work on this problem drops significantly. The greater good incentives (improving access through lending and digitization, reducing duplication through collaborative collecting) are important to both libraries and users so there is power there, but those are long term issues and don't carry the same urgency as how to free up the space for next year's learning commons project.

Access. This ties into the "collection building" mentality with research libraries, who also feel ownership of their collection from an artifact perspective. They correspondingly do not view their stuff as truly "contributed" to a regional or national collection, nor as a public good per se. (Hathi has helped with that a bit.) Research libraries are still pretty nervous in general about who they loan their books to, more nervous if the book is coded as their responsibility to keep, and even more nervous if you talk about lending to users outside higher ed.

Staff support. Monograph projects are staff-intensive and very different than serials, as noted in today's discussion. TRLN's shared print repository quickly gave up on even trying to manage (i.e., dedup) monographs because of the staff effort and disagreements that arose. Regional projects that have staff to help work through these issues and crank through data projects are more successful than those need to that tap member library staff. These projects will additionally require political will and leadership to reduce the friction that slows collaboration. In my experience, it is relatively easy for low level staff to derail projects and even change the direction to the point you wonder why you're even doing the collaboration anymore. This is a barrier.

"Bridge strategy." I liked the OCLC framework of how we are in need of a bridge strategy to take us from where we are now to when the environment is ready for online delivery of materials. Perhaps that's a way to conceptually connect the different pieces of the monographs landscape.

Hathi. Some of the monograph planning conversations (like the above OCLC report) are framed in terms of what's in Hathi and overlap with research collections. That works for librarians (we know what's in Hathi can inform what we might feel is "preserved" but we can't actually use most of it for access) but it can be confusing to users. Since the vast majority of titles in Hathi (~85%) are *not* accessible full text, once you enter the conversation about electronic delivery I've found that talking about what's in Hathi, how much of our collections are there, etc., can be confusing.

Talking to researchers. I agree engaging users and getting their buy-in is key to a successful national strategy. Arguments (or economics) that are only compelling to librarians will not get us much further than we are now. I wonder if there is a way we all should be more educated in thinking and talking about monographs the way researchers do. Do researchers, perhaps differently across different fields, have "taxonomies" of how they think about scholarly monographs? I know librarians do (univ. press, series, front file, back file, etc.) but that is not useful for the researcher conversation.
