1.	Purpose of the existing legacy print collections: preservation of the cultural/scientific heritage or ongoing use as research resource? 
2.	What about building legacy print collections for the future: is there a need? who has the mandate?

3.	Which libraries' collections will underpin the monograph strategy? To start reducing overlaps they need to be identified first, and also how they relate to local usage levels and research priorities. How would the holding libraries provide effective service without owning these collections? 

4.	Are we ready for a slimmed down, national research collection and is it feasible either in the form of a distributed network of collections or a shared  collection in a central storage facility? Who manages the national collection? 

5.	When thinking about national monograph strategy print and digital are inseparable. Role of BL, JISC?

6.	What is needed to make the users, us as the profession and the wider community confident in the national print research collection? Ease of access to physical collections will be important for a foreseeable future, long-term commitment to their retention, also if digital provides a practical access alternative. 

7.	Digitisation should play a key role in supporting the national monograph strategy. However, like with print collections, many digitised collections are being created for local needs and because of local drivers. For digitised content to be integral part of the national research collections, and help reduce multiple physical holdings across libraries, the digitisation should be mass, quick and coordinated, with the content easily and widely accessible to  researchers. National digitisation strategy?

8.	Copyright and digitisation - if in copyright material is excluded from digitisation can we still significantly reduce existing print holdings?

9.	Cost of digitisation, digital management and digital preservation - who pays?

10.	Need to develop new models for working with publishers libraries to be partners and not only customers. 
